Bare Metal - Anti-hack information (#9225)
ovh/docs: pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/anti-hack-dedicated-vps/guide.en-gb.md

> ---

Reviewer: @Y0Coss This article also applies for VPS
Shouldn't we consider adding 2 pages (1 for VPS only and one for dedicated servers only) ?

Reviewer 2: We should avoid duplicated content, we have the multi-location feature for that purpose.

title: Anti-Hack information - Dedicated Server and VPS
excerpt: Find out what information will be visible and provided when OVHcloud's internal Anti-DDoS protection is triggered
updated: 2026-XX-XX
---

> **Learn what happens when OVHcloud's Anti-DDoS protection activates on your Dedicated Server or VPS.**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Learn what happens when OVHcloud's Anti-Hack protection activates on your Dedicated Server or VPS.**
```

Antihack protection is not only about Anti-DDoS protection, it also covers "legal" protection from OVHcloud point of view.

As anti-ddos is a subset of antihack, the page should be called either anti-hack/anti-ddos (if we don't want to document legal scope) or simply anti-hack (because OVHcloud behaviour is same in any case of anti-hack)

@sbraz , what do you expect to see in this document? Only anti-ddos, or all scope of anti-hack?

Reviewer 4: After skimming through the text, I don't see any specific mention of why anti-hack is triggered. We explain what happens but not the cause (legal request, DDOS protection).

I'd say replacing anti-DDOS with anti-hack everywhere is fine. We do not have to explain exactly why the server was blocked, put in rescue, etc. We just explain what the consequences are for the customer, not the "root cause". Besides, I'm pretty sure a lot of hacked servers are not DDOSing anyone, they just got caught trying to brute force SSH auth by some honeypot.

> **Learn what information will be visible and provided when OVHcloud's internal Anti-DDoS protection is triggered on behalf of your Dedicated Server or VPS.**

Reviewer 4: C'est hérité des US mais je trouve ça très verbeux. Je propose :

```suggestion
**Learn what happens when OVHcloud's Anti-DDoS protection activates on your Dedicated Server or VPS.**
```

## Requirements

- a Dedicated Server or VPS that has been hacked
- access to the [OVHcloud Control Panel](/links/manager)

## Anti-Hack information

### **Dedicated Server**

> When Anti-DDoS protection is triggered on your Dedicated Server, you will see a message in the [OVHcloud Control Panel](/links/manager): "*Your server has been hacked. Please contact our support team for instructions on what to do next.*"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When Anti-Hack protection is triggered on your Dedicated Server, you will see a message in the [OVHcloud Control Panel](/links/manager): "*Your server has been hacked. Please contact our support team for instructions on what to do next.*"
```

> Your server can be booted in rescue, which will allow a restart or the reinstallation of the operating system. Below are the boot options for your server:

Reviewer 4: On dirait que le client a le choix. Il me semble que ce n'est pas le cas ?
@sburette, @ashmonger, vous confirmez ?

```suggestion
Your server will automatically be booted in rescue, which will allow a restart or the reinstallation of the operating system. Below are the boot options for your server:
```

> Your server can be booted in rescue, which will allow a restart or the reinstallation of the operating system. Below are the boot options for your server:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Depending on the criticity of the Anti-Hack protection triggered by OVHcloud, the following actions will be allowed/required in order to recover the full service on the server.
```

| Status | Expected actions |

> | ------ | --------- | ----------- |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| ------ | ----------- |
```

| Rescue | Will allow a restart or the reinstallation of the operating system. | Hacked |

> | Rescue FTP | Will allow a restart or the reinstallation of the operating system. | Hacked |

Reviewer 4: @sburette, @ashmonger, si je ne me trompe pas, il n'y a que deux modes : rescue12-customer si "Hacked" et rescue12-ftp si "Hacked and blocked" ?

![antihack information SD](images/hacked-service.png){.thumbnail}

> OVHcloud will also open a support ticket on your behalf containing the following:

Reviewer 3: The "reboot into rescue-ftp" is not systematic. The server may also be rebooted in rescue12-customer.

Does it need to be specified or can we leave documentation as-is, being not extremely precise?

Author: Hello, @sburette based on the many anti-hack emails I reviewed to retrieve this message, most servers are booted in rescue-ftp.

Reviewer 3: > most servers are booted in rescue-ftp.

This means "not all" servers, right ?
Honestly, code is not crystal-clear about anti-hack process on BM side. We are currently having a revamp on this in order to re-implement in another way.
Based on this work, the rescue12-customer popped, but I cannot explain precisely in which cases. Based on this, I'd say, explaining only the FTP case makes the doc inconsistent with what is possible.
Need to deep-dive more in the process on BM side.

Reviewer 5: I think most case would be to reboot in `rescueXX-ftp`, I don't know about the `rescueXX-customer`.
Shouldn't it be always `rescueXX-ftp`?

Author: > > most servers are booted in rescue-ftp.
> 
> This means "not all" servers, right ? Honestly, code is not crystal-clear about anti-hack process on BM side. We are currently having a revamp on this in order to re-implement in another way. Based on this work, the rescue12-customer popped, but I cannot explain precisely in which cases. Based on this, I'd say, explaining only the FTP case makes the doc inconsistent with what is possible. Need to deep-dive more in the process on BM side.

Hello, I believe that in this guide, we are specifically discussing the triggering of the “Anti-hack” protection on a server and its consequences. I think emails about rescue mode or others warnings (the case with VPS) are just for an anti-hack alert or lesser offense as mentioned by Louis. However, when the anti-hack protection is triggered, the servers are placed in rescue-ftp (for dedicated servers) or rescue mode (for VPS). I believe the guide is primarily intended to document the consequences of the protection being triggered and not alerts or lesser offenses..

Reviewer 4: I'll let @sburette check but AFAIU, not all "anti-hacked" servers are put in rescue12-ftp. Some of them are put in rescue12-customer if they are flagged for a lesser offense. I believe that's what you meant by "most servers"?
I do not think this documentation page needs to specifically state what kind of rescue boot mode is used.

> | rescue12-ftp - FTP rescue system for anti-hack | Will **not** allow a restart or the reinstallation of the operating system. | Hacked and blocked |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Status | Expected actions |
| ------ | --------- | ----------- |
| Hacked | Restart the server or ask OVHcloud to reinstall the server |
| HackedBlocked | Collect data through FTP on server booted in FTP rescue system |
```

^ Les `bootState` du serveur ne vont pas aider à comprendre ce que le client peut faire avec ou pas. C'est le statut du serveur qui permettra au client de déterminer ce qu'il peut faire (d'où l'inversion du tableau)
